In this video,
we'll cover abstract classes and type script.
So an abstract class represents a general concept.
So, for example, a shape, a vehicle, a computer, and so on.
So you can't create an instance of an abstract class,
because there's still some details
that need to be filled in, in general.
Also, an abstract class can have abstract methods
and then the abstract method must be
implemented by concrete subclasses.
So let's take a look at this with an example.
So what we'll do is make our shape an abstract class.
So it has some common features,
but it will have an abstract method calculate area,
because how you calculate the area
for a shape depends on what type of shape it is.
So circle has one formula,
a rectangle has another formula, and so on.
So every shape class must implement
the calculate area method.
So as an example here,
the area of a circle is pi times the radius squared.
And then for a rectangle, the area is width times length.
So as you can see, that abstract method
at the shape level has to be implemented
by the actual subclasses.
Okay so let's look at a coding example
here for an abstract class.
So we'll make the shape class abstract
using the abstract keyword.
And we'll also have an abstract method
by making use of the abstract keyword on the method.
But note here, this method has no implementation,
it's simply an abstract method.
So then we have our rectangles,
so we have our class rectangle extends shape.
So then we have to override the calculate area method,
and provide our own implementation.
And so earlier, as I mentioned,
the actual area for our rectangle is width times length.
So let's look at an example with circles.
Our circle extends shape,
so we have to override the calculate area method,
and in here we return pi times radius squared.
So what we do here is make use of the math object.
It's a built-in object that has properties
and methods for mathematical constants and functions.
So there's a math dot pi,
and then a math dot pow power, so you give the actual value
and the actual exponent that you want.
So that will still give us our radius squared.
There are some other ways we could implement this,
like we could say, in this case it's very simple,
we could simply say, radius times radius for radius squared.
But here I simply wanted to show you
how you can make use of the math built-in object.
Alrighty, so here creating an instance.
So, this code will not compile,
since shape is an abstract class.
So we can't create an instance
of an abstract class directly.
We can only create an instance of concrete subclasses,
such as circle, rectangle, so on.
And so a concrete subclass
is a class that's not abstract,
and it implements all of the abstract methods.
Okay so let's go ahead and create an array of shapes here.
So we have my circle, my rectangle.
We declare an array of shapes like we've done before.
We add the shapes to the array, we simply do a four loop.
So we console dot log on tempShape dot getinfo
and then we have a new entry here.
We say console dot log area equals
and then tempShape dot calculateArea.
So again, depending on the type of shape
they'll use their own formula
for calculating their given area.
And then they have a console dot log here
just to give me a line break.
I could have easily used a backslash end for a line break,
but I simply wanted to keep the code simple,
and I just added that extra line.
But, either way will work.
So here's the output, the first entry here is for circle,
so we have x, y, radius of twenty
and then the area equals pi times the radius squared.
And then a similar thing here for our rectangle,
x, y, width, length,
and then the area equals width times length.
Alrighty, so let's go ahead and move into our IDE,
and let's test out this code.